good start this morning we're ready to
rock and roll take your questions and by
the way today's episode is brought to
you by 100% mindset go to shop that
impact Theory calm right now get your
self signal your way to success to glory
I say alright first question is from Gil
Hearn Gil herm Fleury that's what I'm
going with because of the fear of not
being liked I often catch myself trying
to please everyone around me in
consequence of that I can't help but
feel like I don't have an identity you
frequently talk about how important
having an identity and sticking to it is
and I was wondering if you could please
go through the process of building one
most definitely so I love that you asked
about it in terms of it being a process
that's the thing that most people don't
really understand is there's definitely
a huge element of authenticity to
building your identity and I think
that's really what you struggle with but
at the end of the day you're building
something you're creating something it's
not just about taking whatever you feel
this sort of your natural identity and
riding with that it really is deciding
who you want to become and then crafting
your identity to make sure that it's
consistent with that person that you
want to become now one of the hardest
things to do when you're building that
is to really embrace yourself quirks and
all and that is part of the power
certainly of connecting with people as
being real being yourself so there's
really two elements that you're gonna
have to understand this is a part that's
crafted to lead you to the person that
you want to become and then there are
those elements that are really you being
fun being playful being silly if that's
part of your personality and really
embracing that and the big breakthrough
that I had in front of the camera doing
what was originally called inside quest
now impact theory is I had these parts
of my personality whether they were
things that I found interesting and I
wanted to drill down on but wasn't
necessarily typical of an interview or
if I had a funny reaction or I was
shocked or surprised that originally I
was really keeping that in check and I
wasn't letting it out too much I had an
image of what an interviewer was
to be versus what I was actually like
interviewing and so having the belief
simply the belief that being myself and
being authentic and really letting
myself shine through knowing that I was
putting the energy and effort into
becoming a great interviewer so that
that part of the crafting the identity
and being consistent with that and
putting all that work in but then also
on this side saying what do I look like
me personally as an interviewer what are
the things that I find interesting that
I can drill down on and the reason I say
that it was important to just believe
that that was going to be beneficial to
believe that authenticity was going to
allow me to connect more deeply with
people that allowed me to just try and
to experiment and to be myself and to go
down those paths and to ask the
questions that I wanted to ask react the
way that was honest to me wasn't born
out of like oh I just felt so confident
in myself it was born out of I just
believed that that was a better way so
believing that authenticity is the very
thing that's going to allow you to
connect with people I think is the
missing piece for you and so making sure
that you lead with that belief so that
you can trust your instincts and when
you can't trust your instincts you're
really in a dangerous position and a lot
of that the ability to trust your
instincts is gonna come from just
believing that authenticity is the right
move always and that that's what allows
you to connect with people even when it
means that you're less cool than you
want to be but knowing that hey if I'm
real if I'm wrong I'm vulnerable then
the right people are gonna be attracted
to that not everybody is going to be and
you're definitely gonna turn some people
off by being yourself but a it's the
only thing that's sustainable cuz it's
gonna be enjoyable to you because you're
being real and true and be there's just
something in the human psyche we can
smell when somebody's not really being
themselves
and it comes out in their body language
it comes out in the tone of voice
it comes out in their answers it comes
out in their level of consistency over
time so knowing that at the end of the
day what you're really trying to do is
connect with people and the only way to
do that is to really be authentic then
that makes it a lot easier to do because
the goal isn't for them to think that
you're cool the goal is to really embody
yourself in a way that's sustainable and
that's unique and I just wanted to take
a second to really put a fine point into
that there's a great quote I forget who
said it but be yourself everybody else
is already taken and I think that that's
a really powerful way to think about the
creation of that side of the identity
process is to really recognize that if
you want to stand out and quite frankly
enjoy your life being who you really are
quirks and all is the only way because
it's the only way that you're gonna
bring something fresh and new to the
table all right oh my god like we're
really going with a hardcore names today
drew but Jodi drew by Jodi Jos ooh that
is intense
my apologies to you for brutalizing your
name recently you talked about ditching
patience but I think patience helps in
the long run why do you think ditching
patience will help this is so
fascinating so patience in the long run
is the only thing that I can tell you is
guaranteed to fail there may be some
advantage to what people are the reason
that people are telling you to have
patience in the short term because
here's what anybody trying to anybody
telling you to have patience is trying
to get you to understand one very simple
thing whatever you're trying to
accomplish it takes a very long time and
so if you go into it and you're playing
this short-term game game chances are
you're gonna do things that are damaging
to your reputation long term that to me
is not patience that to me is playing
the long game you want to play the long
game you want to be authentic you want
to be a good person you want to do good
things from people you want to invest in
other people not because you're being
patient because patient to me is a very
passive position it's saying look I'm
not gonna like go all out today because
at the end of the day this is gonna take
time this is a marathon it's not a
sprint and so I need to pace myself
that's what people hear when you tell
them to be patient I know because I've
seen it play out thousands of times so
what happens when you tell people be
patient is you're telling them hey look
this is gonna take a really long time
anyway so pace yourself here's the
reality and you're you're gonna feel the
truth of this instantly most dreams
never come true most of the people that
you know most of the dreams that you've
had for yourself they haven't come true
why not because they're brutally
difficult the world is going to resist
you it is not going to be easy to
overcome entropy to overcome inertia the
only way that you're going to overcome
that stuff is to go all-out every day
knowing that it's gonna take a long time
but the only way that that dream is
gonna come true even over that long
period of time is if you're going
all-out every day so literally a mantra
in my life and I can't I cannot stress
this enough this is a cornerstone of why
I've been able to achieve at the level
that I've been able to achieve every day
everything I'm doing I'm asking why
can't it be done faster why can't I
accomplish more right now that it's not
okay to put something off even till
tonight I need to do it right now now
you need to get very good at
prioritizing because if you try and do
everything right now you're going to
accomplish nothing and if you're trying
to be gimmicky or do shortcuts all of
that's gonna fail
because none of that is playing the long
game but if ever you're allowing
yourself to slow down because you simply
are acknowledging that this stuff takes
time I'm telling you it's never going to
work you've got to go all out you've got
to create momentum and this is one of
those things where I don't in fact I'm
gonna reach in people's soul and I'm
gonna tell you why you want me to say
that patience is beneficial because
patience is easier waiting for something
to happen is easier it just doesn't take
as much energy and I get it and I I wish
the world were that way but the reality
is I think this is I forget it's not
John Wooden somebody Bradley I think
said this quote right now
starting over the quote goes like this
every time you take a break someone else
is working and when you meet they will
defeat you
it's a paraphrase but they get you
really close and that's the reality of
the world you're going to have to be
willing to break yourself in half if you
have a big dream and you want to make it
come true now all of that all of that if
what you want is a nice stress-free
relaxing life just set it aside forget I
said any of that I'm not the right
person for you to take advice from
because patient as you want to be
because you need no momentum in your
life you need only peace and tranquility
and there's nothing wrong with that it's
just not what I'm prescribing it's not
what I'm interested in it's not what I
want from my life so when I say
patients it's because it's the only way
to create momentum you've got to have
that hungry and you've got to have a
sentient cultivated urgency if you don't
cultivate that sense of urgency and ask
yourself the magical Peter teal question
how could I take my 10-year plan and
make it happen in six months that's it
like that's the secret that's that is
how you achieve at the highest level
because you're always looking for a way
to move faster to move smarter this
isn't about shortcuts to move faster to
get more done to be more efficient to
move with that sense of urgency and if
you love what you're doing and you
believe in that thing that you're
creating this urgency around and it is
important to you to create this thing
that you're trying to bring into the
world then it is not some torture
chamber it is not some exhausting thing
that is draining your will to live it's
energizing it's giving you more than
it's taking away and that's why I say
patience Brian M hi Tom what is
your advice into presenting a unique
identity when it comes to applying for
jobs Thanks so when going into a job
interview one you've really got a show
that you know your like I just
can't stress that enough that's the
thing don't if you don't know
say you don't know there's nothing more
unnerving in an interview than somebody
who you know is biessing you say
exactly what you know and if you know it
be confident and if you don't say I
don't know that but I bet I could find
out
so really going in and being yourself is
I think incredibly powerful because you
want to be interviewing them as much as
they're interviewing you and if you're
only trying to present yourself as
somebody that you think that they want
to see first of all you're almost
certainly wrong people are always wrong
about what you're looking for in
somebody because you never know what
that person interviewing is really into
and then second it's not sustainable to
be somebody else if you're trying to
pretend to be somebody that you're not
maybe you can like pull it off for a
month maybe two months but like if
you're gonna be at that job for years
then all of a sudden that becomes an
absolutely torturous way to live your
life so that's why it's not necessarily
going to make you the most likely
candidate for every job but it's going
to get you the job that you should
really have around people that you
really want to be around but there's no
way to know that unless you really be
your authentic self and then hopefully
they're doing the same and then if you
do that then you can actually find a
great fit Michael Richards I have been
working with somebody well-respected in
my profession who gave me permission to
name-drop to further my growth I feel
uncomfortable doing so how do you
network versus yeah no I read the but
how do you networking versus riding
coattails is what it actually says how
do you network versus ride coattails
well so first of all if the real
important part of that person is twofold
one what are they teaching you that's
actually usable so that's the most
important and then number two are they
actually introducing you to people are
you simply dropping their name because
if you're just dropping their name it
can help a little bit and it can
definitely be social proof which is very
valuable but just name dropping
unfortunately usually reads is a little
bit icky trust me I get it
with some of the people that I've had on
the show or that I know that I've gotten
no really well person behind the scenes
I want to tell people and it just comes
across weird so finding ways to do it
authentically post a photo of you guys
hanging out
if they've given you a piece of wisdom
then saying like let me tell you what
so-and-so taught me like that doesn't
feel nearly as name-drop II as just like
trying to bring them up in conversation
because if you're passing on a piece of
wisdom and you're making them the hero
and that but it just happens to also
highlight the fact that you know them
then that's a much better way to go
about it the thing that threw me off
riding coattails I don't think is ever
an effective strategy and if it's gonna
get you anywhere it's gonna get you to
the middle and that's sort of best-case
scenario the real key is to learn from
people to really take their knowledge
and then put it to use yourself that's
what you want to be doing hanging around
with somebody that's big in their field
is really about learning the things that
they learn and getting the connections
that they know and then those
connections if you really are able to
bring value then those connections will
be very valuable to you but if you're
not able to bring value then those
connections aren't gonna do much it
might make you look a little bit cooler
in people's eyes that you know that
person but if you can't deliver value
then it really doesn't go anywhere and
you just become the best friend of
somebody and I mean that person just
doesn't go very far so there's a great
quote from our favorite show The West
Wing which is do you want to be the guy
or the guy the guy turns to and if
you're always pointing at somebody else
and trying to name-drop and get your
juice by being associated with them
you're just the guy the guy turns to
personally I want to be the guy so
you've got to cultivate that value in
yourself and be able to bring it all
right
nate thurmond hi Tom would you be in
favor of college students or anyone that
may be considering it to take some time
off to travel and experience as many new
things as they can in order to find
themselves so absolutely but not to find
themselves so you create yourself you
decide who you want to become but
figuring out who it is that you want to
become that is something that requires
you to encounter a lot of things to
experience a lot of life this is Kevin
Kelly's whole notion of don't
prematurely optimize I think that some
of the best advice young people are ever
going to hear is you really want to go
out and explore discover new things so
that you can
find what it is that you find
interesting then that's where the
discovery process ends in the developing
process begins then you begin to create
this notion of who you want to become
and then you go down the path of
becoming that gaining those skills
developing mastery in a certain area but
first really make sure because you're
gonna give at least a decade of your
life if not more to any one thing so
making sure that that's something that
fills you up instead of chipping away at
you is really really important and the
only way to do that is to experience a
whole lot of stuff so yeah I I have no
beef with taking that time off to go
explore and discover new things I think
it's incredibly powerful Technos media
hey Tom I was in a relationship where I
gave everything I had to help my partner
find a passion and help her get hers now
after a year of it I lost myself how can
I find myself again
so this is really about one recognizing
that it is very okay to focus on
yourself in fact it only makes sense
that you're going to allocate the
majority of your time to becoming the
person that you want to become the very
simple and albeit right analogy is that
filling your cup up first and then
helping others with the overflow is the
right way to go about it now the reason
that that's try it's because it's so
often repeated the reason it's so often
repeated is because it is true and the
way that the human-animal works if you
were always giving to other people and
never thinking about yourself then
you're going to run into the problem
that you're running into now which is
you're always extrinsic we focused
instead of intrinsically focused
motivated driven by understanding that
things that are inside of you so you
need to turn inward you need to look at
that you need to since you're living
life from your perspective and having
your own neurochemical experience you
need to make sure that your life is
something that is deeply interesting and
intriguing to you for your own sake not
simply because it will help you help
somebody else so it's really a two-fold
strategy the whole notion of technique
fulfillment comes from the following
building a set of skills that are deeply
interesting to you
that then serve other people but first
it has to be deeply interesting to you
so make sure that you're taking the time
to figure out what those things are
building that skill set learning that's
experiencing those things that you want
to experience because you find them
interesting that's actually going to
help you be more useful to other people
anyway and that's going to help you go
hard enough to develop the skills that
are really going to prove valuable that
are going to give you that sense of
self-worth because you are able to serve
and help other people but it really does
have to start with you it's got to be
something that you're passionate about
otherwise you're just gonna run out of
energy Rav ib's
how vibes one of the two depending on if
you're Brazilian what are your thoughts
on changing reality with thoughts and
repetitions will this workers adjust the
theory okay so there's no doubt that the
way that the brain rewires itself is
through repetition neurons that fire
together wire together so you very much
can create reality I want to say that it
isn't unfortunately like the matrix but
it's so close that you might as well
think of it like that but to me that's
just a metaphor to get people to
understand that you really can influence
your your hardwiring in your own brain
and you certainly can influence the
outside world by gaining a set of skills
that allow you to go out and manipulate
it and I'll give you a super easy
example learning to build a house means
you can actually build a house and you
can manifest that and turn a tree or
concrete into a physical structure so
you can definitely have that kind of
influence you can obviously influence
other people by learning about
psychology so all of these things are
very very possible and if you've ever
seen the way that the neurons in the
brain actually wired together you can
actually see video footage of this
pretty crazy by thinking those thoughts
the brain the neurons because they are
firing together then begin to actually
physically connect to each other and
then they get wrapped in what's called
myelin which is a fatty tissue which
allows electrical impulses to travel
more quickly between those two neurons
so it's a very real phenomenon that's
rooted in biology so it's not like this
is some mythical thing that you just
have to like take people's word on that
I mean literally they have filmed this
process so go check it out
Andrew McFarland hey Tom my brother is a
disgrace in our family and that's very
harsh and has struggled with drugs
alcohol and his life overall my parents
me to room with him next year in college
to help him thought whoa okay so I have
all kinds of thoughts about this they're
gonna be not so popular so here's the
reality one I think that saying that
your brother's a disgrace is just the
wrong step meeting your brother with
compassion and really feeling for him I
think is is the absolute right thing to
do to not be judgmental to let him know
that you love and care about him as he
is that your love and compassion is not
contingent on him getting his
together which of course is what you
want to scream at him because watching
somebody destroy their life is is beyond
heartbreaking now at the same time I
don't believe it is our responsibility
to save anyone else so help where you
can 100% but dedicating your life to
chasing after your brother to me does
not make sense so yeah personally I
would not do that
I would offer my help in any way that I
could but dedicating my life room a ting
rooming with them it's that if that
isn't what I wanted to do then I
absolutely wouldn't do it if it was
holding me back from my goals then I'm
gonna go after my goals and it's
ultimately up to them to get their life
together or not now that doesn't mean
that I turn a cold shoulder or anything
if they asked for help I would give it
to them if they said I need to crash at
your place I'd let him crash in my place
but I wouldn't go to a different school
or room with them if it was hurting my
ability to get to my goals I just
wouldn't so if they're an adult they
need to look after themselves so that is
just my harsh reality so balancing those
two meeting them with compassion not
being judgmental making sure that they
know that you love them making sure they
know that you'll help them if you can
but then also letting them know that
this is their life and they've got to
take care of themselves and you're not
going to dedicate your life to living
their life for them that's my stance
there you have it all right Gonzalo Diaz
hello Tom how can I change my social
circle without making my current circle
of friends mad I know I need to change
my circle but I'm afraid to lose
everyone so I don't think that changing
your friends circle needs to be dramatic
so I wouldn't go out in a blaze of glory
and
them all that they suck and that you're
replacing them I would just start
looking for new friends and spending
time with the new friends or if your
friends behavior isn't moving you
towards your goals just spend less time
with them spend your time reading or
whatever habits it is that you want to
cultivate in your life to make sure that
you're empowering yourself to be able to
go towards the goals that you want to go
towards but at the same time like if
your friends are holding you back I
don't know I've never been conflicted
about that I just wouldn't hang out with
my friends wouldn't be anything dramatic
I wouldn't wish them ill they would feel
nothing but compassion for me but they
would definitely realize that I was
saying they didn't want to hang out as
much anymore
and I would definitely I wouldn't lie
about it I would just say oh I want to
this book or take this class or you know
whatever it is I want to go skiing who
knows whatever it is that you want to do
I'm just being honest with them about
that and in a totally non-judgmental way
but if they don't represent what you
want to do with your life and the people
that you want to be around I get what
you don't want to be harsh but I
wouldn't have a lot of fear about
distance growing in your relationship
there you have it all right Kat Lee if
you've been physically bullied in both
middle and high school how do you move
on if you keep getting reminded of the
pain so first of all you can have to be
really honest with yourself about what
it is that bothers you and if what it is
that bothers you is a feeling of
helplessness the very first thing that I
would do is start learning how to fight
man that that is just the God's honest
truth
and I would do that because it's gonna
give you a sense of self security go
watch the inside quest episode I did
with for Ross Zahabi for Ross Zahabi
it's amazing and in that episode he
talks about learning to fight put him in
a position where he could choose to
ignore somebody that was trying to bully
him or whatever and not be forced to and
I thought that was so powerful that
deciding what to like if you're turning
the other cheek because you know you
could whoop somebody's ass and not
because you're afraid that's a pretty
powerful thing and so go watch that
episode for Ross is an extraordinary
human being so even if you've never been
bullied I think you will be blown away
by his episode but that may be the very
thing that you need now if the bullying
was intellectual in nature or it had to
do with body self-image or something
like that and wasn't about physical
prowess then you're gonna have to
address those concerns and the hard
truth is man if you don't feel good
about you like when I think about what
could somebody bully me over like people
can definitely be mean but the reality
is they usually go after something that
is true and so if I have a sensitivity
about the thing they're coming after me
and it's true then
I look at well is this something that I
can address and there's a amazing quote
I forget who said it but it goes like
this
never fret over the things that you can
change and never fret over the things
that you can't change which I hope makes
total sense because if you can change it
do and if you can't change it then
worrying about it really isn't gonna
serve you so if you're being bullied
over something that you have
insecurities about and you could change
it then start changing it because you
have your own insecurities not because
people are bullying you but because
you're actually insecure about it it
doesn't make you feel good so go and
address that thing and if it's something
that you can't change then forget about
it and I will share my own vulnerability
with you my entire life my ears have
been as big as they are now they're
still big and my head's gotten larger as
a kid every name in the world you could
imagine people would throw at me about
my ears and I just realized whoa there's
nothing I can do about it so I'm not
gonna get in a twist about it and so I
just let it go and I stopped letting it
worry me it didn't work me up so people
stop calling me those names because I
just didn't let it bother me so if it's
something that you've decided it just is
and I'm not going to let it get to me
then really don't let it get to you like
you just have to let it go and have to
say like that's not something I can
change or even more empowering it's not
something I choose to change so if it's
not something you choose to change then
you've just got to let it roll off and
you've got to practice that over and
over and over and just have that belief
I'm not gonna let it bother me because
it's something I choose not to address
rad but because you have that out of I'd
choose not to do anything with this then
let that be the port in the storm let
that be the thing that keeps it from
bothering you and if you want to change
it then I actually do the work of
changing it because that will make that
pain go away suddenly people won't be
able to bully you
about that anymore Adrienne cubby hi Tom
how can you build a unique identity
without developing an ego around being
special different or better than others
okay so one I think that really becoming
your own self and wanting to win and
wanting to be rad does not mean that you
have a raging ego so for instance I want
to be the greatest of all time I want to
be the best ever at the things that I
care about and in pursuing so for
instance I want to be the greatest
interviewer that ever lived
okay now that doesn't mean that I think
other people are lesser than me or that
it makes me a better person because I am
good at something
it simply means that's what's important
to me I'm not afraid to compete I want
to go all out my competition is healthy
I want to win but I don't I'm not
looking to crush people down I just want
to win so if you can focus on that that
you just want to be the best that you
can be that you want to explore the very
limits of your potential it doesn't have
anything to do with anybody else this is
race against yourself now that doesn't
mean that I'm not looking at other
people and let me tell you I look at
other people I look at their interviews
and I look and see who's doing what
better than me can I get better than
them at this that or the other but if I
met them I would legitimately be excited
for them and the things that they've
done that they're doing well a hundred
percent but it doesn't mean that I'm not
thinking hey I'm coming
after you like I want to get better than
you I want more followers than you but
my ego my identity is not tied up in
whether I get that it's tied up in my
willingness to learn my willingness to
stare at my inadequacies recognized
where they're better than me and that I
love seeing other people win so this
isn't about me wanting to beat down or
see them crush down it's none of that it
is purely about wanting to explore the
very limits of my own potential so if
you can meet people and know that
they're better than you in some way at
something always and forever and that
every human being has equal amount of
worth then it's just never going to come
across like you've got some sick gross
gnarly ego meet people with compassion
like for instance man when I pee eaten
when I meet people out on the street I
am really trying to be extraordinary
but I'm so fascinated to meet them and
to find out what they're about and what
are interested in that I want to hear
from them so I'm not just sitting there
waiting for my chance to be cool or say
something cool I want I am legitimately
interested in them because I'd
fundamental beliefs about the value of a
human being any human being and if you
can step to people with that and show
that you're really interested in them no
one's gonna think that you're an
egomaniac so it's very okay to want to
be awesome
it's very okay to want to be the
greatest of all time as long as you
value other human beings just as much as
you value yourself
EDM Nomad hey Tom which is the best way
to stop procrastinating and start doing
the doing the things move doing the
things that move you I'm gonna guess how
do you keep yourself motivated as a
young entrepreneur this is all about
identity and actually wanting the thing
that you're chasing those are huge so a
lot of times I find that people don't
want the thing they're chasing so like
me in the beginning I said what I wanted
was money and I wanted it enough that it
got me going down the path but the
problem is I didn't want it at a deeper
fundamental level because as far as
money goes there's nothing there to want
so you want the thing that money
facilitates whether that's fancy cars
whether that's big houses whether that's
building charities whatever it is that's
the thing you really want the money in
and of itself is not interesting for
most people for some people it's like a
score on a scoreboard but even then
really what you wanted was to win for
most people it really is the thing you
can do with the money it's not that they
want to swim in their money like Scrooge
McDuck
so once you understand that that thing
has to be so exciting to you that even
on the days where it's boring it's
tiring you're exhausted you want to go
out and party with your friends that
when you think about that thing that
you're really fighting for that just
thinking about it gets you excited and
it reinterred eise's you that's when you
know that you're on the right path the
other part of this is identity so you've
just got to be like I have the shirt
that I wear routinely I'm the type of
person that fill in the blank I'm the
type of person that gets out of bed I'm
the type of person that eats right goes
to the gym whatever the case may be all
of those things are pieces of my
identity so that I know that I'm
consistent with it even when no one is
looking so my thing Monday through
Friday if I'm awake a mother working or
working out so
like this morning at 4 a.m. no one knew
what I was doing even my wife was asleep
I'd even let the dogs out of the room
yet so when I say not a soul was gonna
know what I was doing except me and
because I want to feel a certain way
about myself and because those feelings
are so powerful and they are based
entirely on how in line you are with
what you want to be and so in that
moment when I keep working even though
it would have been a lot of fun to goof
around on reddit or to go play video
games or whatever I want to feel a
certain way about myself ten times a
hundred a thousand times more so staying
that course has to do with building that
identity which is based on the person
that I want to become which is based on
what that person would be able to
achieve and do to help not only
themselves but other people right
working backwards from fulfillment and
you get to that excitement you have in
that moment where the options are lay in
bed play video games or whatever it is
that you do to goof off or do that thing
whichever is more exciting pursue that
because here's the thing procrastinating
is oftentimes the key it's the thing you
should be looking at what do you do when
you're procrastinating is it something
that you could put at the center of your
life is this something that you can
monetize not me
so that's the key you want to be
focusing on those two things
identity and then is it really exciting
for you or not and by the way you guys
just got to watch me practice in real
time who is that someone's alarms going
off for people listening to the podcast
that I'm sure I seem crazy right about
now but somebody's alarm keeps going off
but I just practice in real time holding
on to the two ideas that I needed to
remember remember all of life is but
practice so take your opportunities to
practice where you can it's super
powerful I was thinking about that this
morning
it's all practice it's all practice so
I'll practice all right Patrick
Rivera Tom three exclamation points
thank you simon Sinek didn't help me
with how to get a why it only seemed to
point to start with a why any
suggestions this goes back to one of our
earlier questions about exploring your
life finding out
what are the things that you care about
that really spark interest in you that
you can develop into something but the
reality is that ultimately you're just
gonna decide that something is important
to you so I decided that nutrition was
important to me and then I started
thinking about or sorry I started
thinking about my mom and my sister and
how much I wanted to help them and so
that was the thing that became like this
obsessive loop and then that was the
reasoning behind deciding that I was
going to get into new into nutrition the
same thing with spending the 8 F years
working with rashon is a Big Brother and
then at Quest having so many employees
that grew up hard and really wanting to
help create opportunities in their life
at some point I just decided that I was
gonna make that the central focus of my
life so it's not like it's self-evident
at any one point you just start going
you know it really makes me feel good
helping and doing something like that
it's a set of skills that I really want
to develop but ultimately you just
decide and you say that's the mission in
my life it's not like there weren't
other things you could be doing but
you're just gonna pick one you're gonna
decide and then as you're going down a
path if it stops being fun you're not
enjoying it then you can switch none of
this stuff has to be forever but
deciding and moving like aggressively in
a direction that's the only way that
you're gonna make something happen
Anna Sophia Lopez hello from Portugal
what's up Portugal how do I block my
mind from the influence of friends and
family trying to save me from a bad
decision in their perspective pursuing a
career thank you Tom alright so this is
something I see a lot man so people care
about you very deeply they just want to
see you happy but they're always
projecting their own life onto you we
can't help it even I do it to you guys
all the time every bit of advice I'm
giving you is because it's the advice
that I'm living by so when people are
scared when they're frustrated when they
hate their job they're giving you advice
from that perspective so you're taking a
risk
jettison jettisoning safety all the
things that they have probably built up
as being important enough to do a job
that they hate and all that stuff
they then project that onto you they're
not trying to hold you down they want to
see you again be happy be successful as
they see it so they're trying to protect
you but the reality is you
got to understand a couple things one
that it's okay to fail and that if you
really are making a catastrophic mistake
barring brain damage or death you can
unwind it so it's just not that big of a
deal so if you go down a road that ends
up setting you back a decade let's say
now you're a decade behind everybody
else it doesn't matter you will have
learned something in that process
hopefully something really powerful
especially if you have a growth mindset
you'll be collecting that wisdom
figuring out what you don't want great
the only thing that becomes terrifying
is when you have Dogma about how you
supposed to live your life and you're so
afraid to explore to try new things to
think in any way that you never go try
that thing that they're warning you
against so I say if you've got any
inclination to give it a shot give it a
shot what does it really matter like
look at your worst case scenario what
does catastrophic failure really look
like being broke your family and friends
making fun of you okay sure
like people telling you I told you so
it's never fun to hear but at the end of
the day it just doesn't matter like take
the lessons keep moving forward build
the life that gives you fulfillment so
just understand their hearts in a good
place so when people are giving me
advice and when they were giving me
advice when I was broke and literally
had no idea what I was doing I just
listened and thank them for their advice
and then steered by what I really wanted
to accomplish in my life based on the
things that gave me the most energy that
got me the most excited that led to the
most fulfillment that's it and yeah like
know that they mean well and so don't
get pissed don't push back don't fight
with them don't argue don't try to
convince them to see things your way
which they are never going to just let
your actions speak for themselves and
always be willing to learn maybe they
were right and maybe it takes you years
to figure that out so what that's just
the process of life all right on that I
have to bid you farewell guys thank you
so much for joining me for this episode
and by the way we just dropped an
episode of hell theory you guys haven't
checked that show out go check it out
I'm Way amp I think this episode really
walks an amazing line between talking
about diet nutrition and talking about
mindset and getting yourself out of a
dark place really really cool episode
with a woman named Cynthia Pasquale
so check it out I think you guys will
dig it that's healthy arre it's on the
YouTube channel so be sure to check it
all right if you haven't already been to
shop that impact Theory calm to get
yourself signaling sure it's head over
there right now check it out and if you
haven't subscribed be sure to do so and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care